CORE-8341: Network Plugin Documentation (#4505)
corda/corda-runtime-os: wiki/Network-Plugin.md

The Network plugin is a plugin for [Corda CLI plugin host](https://github.com/corda/corda-cli-plugin-host) to set up and manage application networks using corda-cli.

# Before you start

> To use the Network plugin, you will need a working copy of `corda-cli` with the plugin installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Network plugin, you will need a working copy of `corda-cli` with the plugin installed.

To do this, you can either download it from the R3 developer portal or build it from source.
```
to introduce the next sections.

It might be better to re-order them as well, to have the downloading approach first as I suspect that's what most people will prefer.

## Build from source

1. Clone the [corda-cli-plugin-host](https://github.com/corda/corda-cli-plugin-host) repository from GitHub:

``` 
git clone https://github.com/corda/corda-cli-plugin-host.git
cd corda-cli-plugin-host
```

2. Build the project using Gradle:
``` 
./gradlew build
```

3. Locate the `corda-cli.sh` script in the `corda-cli-plugin-host/build/generatedScripts/` directory.

4. Build the plugin JAR from the [corda-runtime-os](https://github.com/corda/corda-runtime-os) repository from GitHub:
```
./gradlew :tools:plugins:network:build
```

5. Move the generated JAR to the `corda-cli-plugin-host/build/plugins/` directory.

6. Run commands using the `corda-cli.sh` script.

## Download from the R3 Developer Portal

1. Follow the instructions on the [Installing the Corda CLI](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/5.0/deploying-operating/tooling/installing-corda-cli.html) page.
2. Run commands using the `corda-cli.sh` script.

# Setting up an application network

## Onboard MGM

> The `onboard-mgm` command creates a virtual node for an MGM and initiates the onboarding process, through which a membership group is created. The session and ECDH keys are auto-generated by the Network plugin during registration. The group policy is also exported to be used for creating Member CPI(s).

Reviewer: `membership group` -> `application network`
I know both terms refer to the same thing, but I believe there's a preference towards the second one as it's easier for users/customers and less low-level/technical.

```
./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-mgm "O=MGM, L=London, C=GB" -s <save-group-policy-as> --wait --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```
Use `./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-mgm --help` to view all available options.

## Onboard a member

> The `onboard-member` command is for onboarding members onto a dynamic network. It creates a virtual node for the member, and starts the registration process by auto-generating session and ledger keys.

Reviewer: While reading `dynamic network`, it made me wonder whether we should do a minor restructuring to align with the dynamic/static split e.g.
* Have a sub-section called "Setting up a dynamic application network" with "Onboard MGM" & "Onboard a member" sub-sections under it. And talk about the `dynamic` sub-command that's currently ignored silently.
* have the remaining sections ("Get Registrations", "Lookup") at the same level as "Setting up a dynamic application network". Since if I understand correctly, these are supposed to be generic.

To onboard a member using a CPB and group policy:
```

> ./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-member "O=Alice, L=London, C=GB" --cpb-file <path-to-your-CPB-file> --group-policy-file <path-to-your-group-policy> --wait --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure

Reviewer: I noticed we have the `--insecure` option everywhere. Should we remove it (and have a note somewhere why someone might need to add it)?

```

To onboard a member as a notary:
```
./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-member "O=Alice, L=London, C=GB" --cpi-hash <cpi-hash> --role "notary" --set "corda.notary.service.name"="C=GB, L=London, O=Notary" --wait --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

Use `./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-member --help` to view all available options.

## Get Registrations

The `get-registrations` command is for checking the status of registration requests.

To view all requests for a holding identity:
```
./corda-cli.sh network check-registration-status -h <holding-id> --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

To view a specific registration request, use `--request-id`:
```
./corda-cli.sh network check-registration-status -h <holding-id> --request-id <request-id> --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

> Note: You can use `--name` and `--group` if the holding ID is not known. If only `--name` is specified, the last created group will be used by default.

> ## Lookup

Reviewer: Should we re-name this to something that's more high-level and user-oriented? e.g. "Discovering other members of the network and viewing the group parameters"

> # Corda Network Plugin

Reviewer 2: I think "Corda-CLI Network Plugin" would be more appropriate, or "Network Plugin" for short

> The Corda Network Plugin is a powerful tool that extends the functionality of the Corda CLI plugin host for managing membership operations and setting up application networks. It provides a set of commands to interact with the Corda network, onboard new members, manage group policies, and perform various network-related operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Corda Network Plugin is a powerful tool that extends the functionality of the Corda CLI plugin host for managing membership operations and setting up application networks. It provides a set of commands to interact with an application network, onboard new members, manage group policies, and perform various network-related operations.
```
FYI, "the Corda Network" can be interpreted by people as something else than what is indended. See: https://corda.network/

## Before you start

> You will need a working copy of `corda-cli` with the mgm and package plugins installed. See https://github.com/corda/corda-cli-plugin-host#setupbuild.

Reviewer: We should probably add instructions here for both building from source or [simply downloading the final artifact](https://docs.r3.com/en/platform/corda/5.0/deploying-operating/tooling/installing-corda-cli.html). I feel like most people (that don't have an interest in doing code changes on the plugin) will prefer the second option.

## Basic Commands

The Corda Network Plugin provides the following basic commands:

> - `network group-policy`: Generates a GroupPolicy.json file for defining the static network section of the GroupPolicy.

Reviewer: Looking at the current code, it seems like it still is `network groupPolicy`? Is this intentional in which case the docs should be updated or should the code be fixed by adding an alias (as we want `groupPolicy` for the case when it's invoked from the old `mgm` parent command)?

Reviewer 2: This will be addressed as part of https://r3-cev.atlassian.net/browse/CORE-15349
For now we should continue documenting `groupPolicy`

- `network onboard-mgm`: Onboards a new MGM member (and creates a new group) to an existing Corda cluster.

> - `network onboard-member`: Onboards a new standard member to an existing group in the Corda cluster.

Reviewer: There's a `dynamic` sub-command here, right? e.g. `network dynamic onboard-mgm` / `network dynamic onboard-member`.

> - `network lookup members`: Looks up members in the Corda network based on various filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `network lookup members`: Looks up members in an application network based on various filters.
```

> - `network lookup members`: Looks up members in the Corda network based on various filters.

Reviewer 2: We should also include `get-registrations`

> - `network lookup group-parameters`: Looks up group parameters in the Corda network based on various filters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `network lookup group-parameters`: Looks up group parameters in an application network based on various filters.
```

For more details on each command and its usage, refer to the command-specific documentation below.

## Setting up an Application Network

To set up an application network using the Corda Network Plugin, follow these steps:

1. Onboard an MGM member to the existing Corda cluster using the `network onboard-mgm` command. This command creates a new group and saves the group policy file.
2. Onboard standard members to the existing group using the `network onboard-member` command. Provide the necessary parameters such as member name, CPB file, etc.
3. Use the `network lookup members` command to verify the members in the network.
4. Use the `network lookup group-parameters` command to view the group parameters of the network.

# Setting up an Application Network

> This guide provides step-by-step instructions on how to set up an application network using the Corda Network Plugin. The application network consists of an MGM member, standard members, and a notary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide provides step-by-step instructions on how to set up an application network using the Corda Network Plugin. The application network consists of an MGM, standard members, and a notary.
```
You are also talking about a notary here, but there are no example instructions above. 

In terms of structure, I would also suggest creating sub-headings for each part of the process to help readers navigate more quickly, i.e. one sub-heading for onboarding the MGM, one for onboarding regular members and one for onboarding a notary.

## Prerequisites

Before setting up the application network, ensure that you have completed the following prerequisites:

- Installed the Corda Network Plugin as described in the [Installation](#installation) section.
- Familiarized yourself with the basic commands of the Corda Network Plugin as described in the [Basic Commands](#basic-commands) section.

## Steps

### Installation

To use the Corda Network Plugin, follow these steps:

1. Build the JAR file by running 
```bash
./gradlew :tools:plugins:network:build
```
4. Move the generated JAR file to the `corda-cli-plugin-host/build/plugins/` directory.
5. Locate the `corda-cli.sh` script in the `corda-cli-plugin-host/build/generatedScripts/` directory.

> 6. Run the commands using the `corda-cli.sh` script.

Reviewer: I think this would be better placed in the "Before you start" section above. 

Especially, if you follow my suggestion above where the section there is split into two sub-sections, one for people that want to build from source and one from people that want to download the CLI. In this case, these instructions can go into the section for people that want to build from source and can thus be easily ignored for people not interested in this.

Follow these steps to set up an application network:

1. Onboard an MGM member:
   - Run the `network onboard-mgm` command with the necessary parameters to onboard the MGM member and create a new group.
   - Specify the member's details, such as name, user, password, target URL, etc.

Example Commands
```bash
./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-mgm 'O=MGM, L=London, C=GB' --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```
- Use `./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-mgm --help` to view the other options.

> - Optionally, use the `--save-group-policy-as` parameter to specify a custom location to save the MGM group policy file.

Reviewer 2: This will show up in `--help` so maybe we don't need this here

Example Command
```bash
./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-mgm 'O=MGM, L=London, C=GB' --save-group-policy-as /tmp/groupPolicy.json --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

> 2. Onboard standard members:

Reviewer 2: To be consistent with our other wiki pages, we can simply say "member" here and in other places
```suggestion
2. Onboard a member:
```

   - Run the `network onboard-member` command with the necessary parameters to onboard standard members to the existing group.
   - Specify the member's details, such as name, CPB file, user, password, target URL, etc.
   - Optionally, use the `--wait` parameter to wait until the request gets approved/declined.
  
Example Command
```bash

> ./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-member 'O=Alice, L=London, C=GB' --cpb-file ~/corda-runtime-os/testing/cpbs/chat/build/libs/*.cpb --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure

Reviewer: Probably better to avoid paths that cannot be used without extra commands that are not documented here and just put a generic placeholder e.g.:
```suggestion
./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-member 'O=Alice, L=London, C=GB' --cpb-file <path-to-your-CPB-file> --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

```

> - Use `./corda-cli.sh network dynamic onboard-mgm --help` to view the other options.

Reviewer 2: This should be `onboard-member` here?

3. Verify the network:
   - Use the `network lookup members` command to verify the members in the network.
   - Specify filters such as holding identity short hash, name, group, etc., to narrow down the search.

Example Commands:

To look up all members visible to member `3B8DECDDD6E2`:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup members -h "3B8DECDDD6E2"
```

To look up members visible to member `3B8DECDDD6E2` filtered by attributes Organization (O) `Alice` and Country (C) `IE`:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup members -h "3B8DECDDD6E2" -o "Alice" -c "IE"
```

To look up all members visible to `C=GB, L=London, O=Member1` from the default (last created) group:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup members -n "C=GB, L=London, O=Member1"
```

To look up all members visible to `C=GB, L=London, O=Member1` from group `b0a0f381-e0d6-49d2-abba-6094992cef02`:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup members -n "C=GB, L=London, O=Member1" -g "b0a0f381-e0d6-49d2-abba-6094992cef02"
``` 

To look up suspended members as the MGM (`1B8DECDDD6E2`) from the default group:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup members -h "1B8DECDDD6E2" -s "SUSPENDED"
```

>    - Refer to the [Lookup Members Wiki](https://github.com/corda/platform-eng-design/blob/5d75cf18e6df4eb8044abf53d9c4e2c62d62ef8b/core/corda-5/corda-5.0/the-host/network-plugin.md#lookup-members) for more details on available filters and options.

Reviewer: We shouldn't be linking to design documents from documentation as it can easily get out-of-date (and in most cases won't necessarily match the final implementation). You can just refer the user to use `--help` command to see available options.

   - Refer to the [Lookup Group Parameters Wiki](https://github.com/corda/platform-eng-design/blob/5d75cf18e6df4eb8044abf53d9c4e2c62d62ef8b/core/corda-5/corda-5.0/the-host/network-plugin.md#lookup-group-parameters) for more details on available filters and options.

Example Commands:

To look up group parameters visible to member `3B8DECDDD6E2`:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup group-parameters -h "3B8DECDDD6E2" --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

To look up group parameters visible to `C=GB, L=London, O=Member1` from the default (last created) group:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup group-parameters -n "C=GB, L=London, O=Member1" --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
``` 

To look up group parameters visible to `C=GB, L=London, O=Member1` from group `b0a0f381-e0d6-49d2-abba-6094992cef02`:

```bash
./corda-cli.sh network lookup group-parameters -n "C=GB, L=London, O=Member1" -g "b0a0f381-e0d6-49d2-abba-6094992cef02" --user=admin --password=admin --target=https://localhost:8888 --insecure
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: We can probably omit this section
